## About this video

This video is about GitHub Copilot. I'll basically be monkeying around with the tool and see how it works and discuss my thoughts about it.

## Video outline

### What is Github Copilot?

Last month, Github introduced Copilot. They call it an AI pair programmer that helps you write code faster and with less work. I like that. Because I'm a lazy bastard. Today I'm going to put it through its paces and see if it delivers what they promise. In short: yes it does. But there are three things I'm really concerned about. Let's dive in.

If you're new here and you want to become a better software developer, gain a deeper understanding of programming in general, start now by subscribing and hitting the bell, so you don't miss anything.

### Installing it in VSCode

Copilot integrates directly with VSCode. You can install it as an extension. At the moment, you need to be in the Technical Preview group in order to use it. I put a link in the description that you can click to go on the waitlist if you're interested.

### Play around with the tool

Using it is pretty straightforward. It automatically suggests code snippets. You can use Command or Ctrl + square brackets to see the options you can choose from. If you want to use a snippet, press Tab and it's added to your code. If you don't want any of the suggestions, press Enter, or just keep typing.

The interface integrates well with VSCode. Really basic. Does the job and doesn't get in the way. You can see that they thought about this.

- Try a few basic functions:

  - Basic Copilot example to compute date difference
  - Read settings from the command line

- Classes and dataclasses

  - Creating an Employee class
  - Make a dataclass version -> works!
  - Note that some of the example code is pretty bad (manager attributes in the Employee class)
  - Add an extra low quality exporter to factory example code (works!)

- Let's try to break it
  - Try stuff like "password =", "db_connection_string =", "api_key = " etc.

## My thoughts

Overall, I'm impressed, but I do have three issues with it that I'll talk about in a minute.

Copilot can be helpful though with providing quick solutions to common software problems. This is similar to how design patterns, but a bit more on the algorithmic level. I can imagine that as this tool gets better, it's going to save developers time. Fortunately, it doesn't make my channel obsolete :). You still need to think about how to design your software and how to organize your code [pitch design guide here with a link].

My issues with it are threefold:

- Legal issues (have already been mentioned by others)

  - Can you use code generated by Copilot commercially? Even if it's directly generated from code written by others that may not have been released under the right license? Philosophical question: when is code actually still "original"? (Similar dicussion appears in the music industry actually)
  - What if a bad actor copies your code, and during a legal proceeding simply says that Copilot generated the code. Can we prove that it did or that it didn't? AI still has an issue with making its decision process more explicit

- Quality issues

  - Since it's based on the code that's in current GitHub repos, there are quality issues (see example with Employee/management)
  - If developers simply accept code suggestions by Copilot without checking that it actually does what it needs to do, this might lead to a spiral of decreasing code quality. Because that generated code is committed and used by the algorithm to learn from and suggest to others. This is kind of similar to what's happening on social media where recommendation systems put people into bubbles of misinformation.
  - Not sure if Copilot has incorporated some kind of quality metric. Perhaps it can learn from the choices people make when selecting which piece of generated code to add. But that might still lead to the decreasing quality spiral I mentioned earlier.

- Security issues
  - Many repos contain sensitive information such as DB credentials, API private keys, and so on. GitHub seems to have done a good job filtering those out, but can we guarantee there are no false negatives? Tools like Copilot are another reason to never put sensitive data in repositories, even if they are private.
  - Can a bad actor commit malicious code and trick the algorithm into suggesting that code to other developers who then use it?

Overall: it's an interesting new direction for software development. I'm not going to uninstall this yet and see how it feels when I use this for a longer period. I'm curious: do you see yourself using Copilot in your development process? Do you think its helpful? Let me know what your thoughts are. Thanks for watching, take care and see you soon!
